# Veilid Terraform Oracle

Since the [Oracle Cloud](https://www.oracle.com/uk/cloud/free/) free tier _should_ be enough to run two (COUNT EM!) AMD Compute VMs, that means all you need to do is sign up for an oracle account and _in theory_ you can run two veilid nodes for free! CAVEAT: I'm still testing if this is true, so caveat emptor.

> FAIR WARNING!!!! Dealing with Oracle Cloud is NOT for the feint of heart...the process of actually setting up an account and bushwhacking through their docs to configure a simple token you can use to authenticate with terraform is fraught with peril and may make you immediately regret your decision.

[This](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/oci-get-started/oci-build) is the best and simplest walk-through to follow, and even it requires multiple browser tabs open to work out what the hell is going on.

## Cost

The default configuration runs inside the Oracle free tier, so the cost will be nothing.

## Steps

1. Sign up for an [Oracle Cloud Account](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/sign-in.html)

2. Download the [OCI CLI](https://github.com/oracle/oci-cli)

It will take a bit of fiddling after running the `oci setup config` to get all your configuration right, so make sure you're sitting down.

You'll need to enter a User OCID, and you can find that in the "My Profile" section of the Profile (it's the icon in the top right of the screen once you're logged into the OCI console).

To get the Tenancy OCID, also navigate via the Profile, but to the "Tenancy" menu.

After you generate the RSA signing key (this has nothing to do with your own personal SSH key, so you might as well create a new one for Oracle...just accept all the defaults), you'll need to upload it. The path to click to the right part of the console is a bit convoluted, but you want to follow the trail of:

> Identity > Domains > Default domain > Users > YOUR_USER_NAME@DOMAIN.COM

Then click on "Api Keys" in the Resources menu at the bottom left of the page. If you accepted all the defaults, the contents of the public key should be in `~/.oci/oci_api_key_public.pem`, so just copy that and paste it into the console.

After you upload the key, you'll get a popup dialog asking you to paste the contents of the screen into `~/.oci/config`, but that file should already be autogenerated with the correct key path, fingerprint, and everything else. So check that it is, and then you can just close the dialog window without copying anything.

You're now ready to go to the next step!

3. Authenticate with the OCI CLI and generate a session token

```
oci session authenticate --no-browswer
```

And just choose the region you want to use. If you don't want to use `uk-london-1`, remember to also update the value in `main.tf`.

> if you get logged out for any reason (this process shouldn't take more than 1-2 minutes) renew your credentials by running `oci session authenticate --no-browser` again.

4. If you'd like SSH access, then add your ssh key contents in the `ssh_authorized_keys` section in `setup-veilid.yaml`. If you don't need/want SSH acces, skip this step.

> If you want to use a separate SSH key, then generate one in this folder like `ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f veilid-key`.

5. Run `terraform init && terraform apply`.

6. Once the instance is booted up, it should start veilid automatically, but if you'd like to poke around, ssh in using the ssh key pair that you added in the terraform configuration.

You'll see the IP addresses for the instances in the output after running the commands above:

```sh
Outputs:

public_ips = [
  "84.8.150.224",
  "144.21.58.188",
]
```

and then you can SSH into them if you want.

```sh
ssh -i PATH_TO_YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY veilid@SERVER_IP_ADDRESS
```

> Note: if you try to SSH in too soon, you may see a message saying "System is booting up. Unprivileged users are not permitted to log in yet. Please come back later. For technical details, see pam_nologin(8)." Just try again in a minute or so.
